# SeniorThesis
Binaries in Binary: Harmful Consequences and Radical Possibilities of Technology for Trans Liberation

I wrote a theoretical gender studies thesis during my senior year at Simmons. My advisor was Professor Lena Zuckerwise. My work drew heavily from feminist science and technology studies, transgender studies, and information science/critical digital studies.

I was honored to [present my work](https://youtu.be/XA2Ea9bVGPQ?t=164) at the Simmons Undergraduate Symposium as a Keynote Speaker. 

In this paper, I examine the impacts of technology on transgender lives, identities, and movements. Through an analysis of discourses, I consider the ways activists and movements, aiming to better the lives of trans people, have been absorbed into systems of capitalism and neoliberalism. This has watered down their goals, emphasizing legal equality, inclusion, and recognition, rather than more radical aims. Consequently, technological systems “include” trans identities through updated gender categorization schemes in data, and they recognize trans people by viewing transness as an individual phenomenon, not a shared identity. These qualities of technology reinforce a white and medicalized trans narrative that reinstates the gender binary instead of upending it. Ultimately, technological and gender systems produce harmful consequences, from surveillance and misgendering to exclusion and forced outing, resulting in vast inequality among trans populations. Nevertheless, creative uses of technology have shown that it can be liberatory for trans people, challenging the gender binary and enabling movement-building. Turning to an imaginative future for technological systems, I argue that they must be community-centered, designed according to liberatory values, and detached from capitalist funding and the state’s agenda of control in order to lead to radical structural change.
